docs/introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

<br />

> ⚠️ WARNING: This project has been deprecated in favour of [Vanilla Extract.](https://github.com/vanilla-extract-css/vanilla-extract)

# Themeable, statically extracted CSS&#8209;in&#8209;JS with near&#8209;zero runtime.

Write your styles in JavaScript/TypeScript within **_treat files_** (e.g. `Button.treat.js`) that get **_executed at build time_**.

All CSS rules are created ahead of time, so the runtime is _very_ lightweight—only needing to swap out pre-existing classes. In fact, if your application doesn't use theming, you don't even need the runtime at all.

**All CSS logic, including its dependencies, will not be included in your final bundle.**

Because theming is achieved by generating multiple classes, **_legacy browsers are supported._**

## Requirements

Your project must be using [webpack](webpack-options) with the supplied [webpack plugin](webpack-options), but that's it.

**First-class support is provided for [React](https://reactjs.org/) and [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/),** but those layers are _entirely optional._ The core [runtime API](runtime-api) can be integrated into other frameworks, if needed.

The runtime makes use of [`Map`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map), so you may need a [polyfill](https://www.npmjs.com/package/es6-map) for [pre-ES2015 browsers.](https://caniuse.com/#feat=es6)

## Basic usage

First, install the core library.

```bash
$ yarn add treat
```

Then, add the [webpack plugin](setup#webpack-setup) to your project. In this case, we're using [mini-css-extract-plugin](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/mini-css-extract-plugin) to generate a static CSS file.

```js
const { TreatPlugin } = require('treat/webpack-plugin');
const MiniCssExtractPlugin = require('mini-css-extract-plugin');

module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    new TreatPlugin({
      outputLoaders: [MiniCssExtractPlugin.loader]
    }),
    new MiniCssExtractPlugin()
  ]
};
```

Next, define and export [styles](data-types#styles) from a treat file.

```js
// Button.treat.js
// ** THIS CODE WON'T END UP IN YOUR BUNDLE! **
import { style } from 'treat';

export const button = style({
  backgroundColor: 'blue',
  height: 48
});
```

Finally, import the styles.

```js
// Button.js
import * as styles from './Button.treat.js';

export const Button = ({ text }) => `
  <button class="${styles.button}">${text}</button>
`;
```

## Themed usage

> This themed usage example makes use of [react-treat](react-api) to keep things simple. React is [not required](runtime-api) to use treat.

First, install react-treat.

```bash
$ yarn add react-treat
```

Assuming you've already set up the [webpack plugin](setup#webpack-setup), start by creating and exporting a theme from a treat file. Normally, you'd define multiple themes, but let's keep it short.

```js
// theme.treat.js
// ** THIS CODE WON'T END UP IN YOUR BUNDLE! **
import { createTheme } from 'treat';

export default createTheme({
  brandColor: 'blue',
  grid: 4
});
```

Then, import the desired theme and pass it to [`TreatProvider`](react-api#treatprovider) at the root of your application.

```js
// App.js
import React from 'react';
import { TreatProvider } from 'react-treat';

import theme from './theme.treat.js';

export const App = () => (
  <TreatProvider theme={theme}>...</TreatProvider>
);
```

Now that you've configured the theming system, define and export [themed styles](data-types#themedstyles) from a treat file.

```js
// Button.treat.js
// ** THIS CODE WON'T END UP IN YOUR BUNDLE EITHER! **
import { style } from 'treat';

export const button = style((theme) => ({
  backgroundColor: theme.brandColor,
  height: theme.grid * 11
}));
```

> Themed styles have higher precedence than non-themed styles, regardless of document order. For more information, read the [theming](how-it-works#theming) guide.

Then import and resolve themed styles via the [`useStyles` Hook.](react-api#usestyles)

```js
// Button.js
import React from 'react';
import { useStyles } from 'react-treat';
import * as styleRefs from './Button.treat.js';

export const Button = (props) => {
  const styles = useStyles(styleRefs);

  return <button {...props} className={styles.button} />;
};
```

Commit message:

Link to treat->VE migration guide (#211)

docs/introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

<br />

> ⚠️ WARNING: This project has been deprecated in favour of [Vanilla Extract.](https://github.com/vanilla-extract-css/vanilla-extract).
> Please take a look at [the migration guide](https://github.com/vanilla-extract-css/vanilla-extract/blob/master/docs/treat-migration-guide.md).

# Themeable, statically extracted CSS&#8209;in&#8209;JS with near&#8209;zero runtime.

Write your styles in JavaScript/TypeScript within **_treat files_** (e.g. `Button.treat.js`) that get **_executed at build time_**.

All CSS rules are created ahead of time, so the runtime is _very_ lightweight—only needing to swap out pre-existing classes. In fact, if your application doesn't use theming, you don't even need the runtime at all.

**All CSS logic, including its dependencies, will not be included in your final bundle.**

Because theming is achieved by generating multiple classes, **_legacy browsers are supported._**

## Requirements

Your project must be using [webpack](webpack-options) with the supplied [webpack plugin](webpack-options), but that's it.

**First-class support is provided for [React](https://reactjs.org/) and [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/),** but those layers are _entirely optional._ The core [runtime API](runtime-api) can be integrated into other frameworks, if needed.

The runtime makes use of [`Map`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map), so you may need a [polyfill](https://www.npmjs.com/package/es6-map) for [pre-ES2015 browsers.](https://caniuse.com/#feat=es6)

## Basic usage

First, install the core library.

```bash
$ yarn add treat
```

Then, add the [webpack plugin](setup#webpack-setup) to your project. In this case, we're using [mini-css-extract-plugin](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/mini-css-extract-plugin) to generate a static CSS file.

```js
const { TreatPlugin } = require('treat/webpack-plugin');
const MiniCssExtractPlugin = require('mini-css-extract-plugin');

module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    new TreatPlugin({
      outputLoaders: [MiniCssExtractPlugin.loader]
    }),
    new MiniCssExtractPlugin()
  ]
};
```

Next, define and export [styles](data-types#styles) from a treat file.

```js
// Button.treat.js
// ** THIS CODE WON'T END UP IN YOUR BUNDLE! **
import { style } from 'treat';

export const button = style({
  backgroundColor: 'blue',
  height: 48
});
```

Finally, import the styles.

```js
// Button.js
import * as styles from './Button.treat.js';

export const Button = ({ text }) => `
  <button class="${styles.button}">${text}</button>
`;
```

## Themed usage

> This themed usage example makes use of [react-treat](react-api) to keep things simple. React is [not required](runtime-api) to use treat.

First, install react-treat.

```bash
$ yarn add react-treat
```

Assuming you've already set up the [webpack plugin](setup#webpack-setup), start by creating and exporting a theme from a treat file. Normally, you'd define multiple themes, but let's keep it short.

```js
// theme.treat.js
// ** THIS CODE WON'T END UP IN YOUR BUNDLE! **
import { createTheme } from 'treat';

export default createTheme({
  brandColor: 'blue',
  grid: 4
});
```

Then, import the desired theme and pass it to [`TreatProvider`](react-api#treatprovider) at the root of your application.

```js
// App.js
import React from 'react';
import { TreatProvider } from 'react-treat';

import theme from './theme.treat.js';

export const App = () => (
  <TreatProvider theme={theme}>...</TreatProvider>
);
```

Now that you've configured the theming system, define and export [themed styles](data-types#themedstyles) from a treat file.

```js
// Button.treat.js
// ** THIS CODE WON'T END UP IN YOUR BUNDLE EITHER! **
import { style } from 'treat';

export const button = style((theme) => ({
  backgroundColor: theme.brandColor,
  height: theme.grid * 11
}));
```

> Themed styles have higher precedence than non-themed styles, regardless of document order. For more information, read the [theming](how-it-works#theming) guide.

Then import and resolve themed styles via the [`useStyles` Hook.](react-api#usestyles)

```js
// Button.js
import React from 'react';
import { useStyles } from 'react-treat';
import * as styleRefs from './Button.treat.js';

export const Button = (props) => {
  const styles = useStyles(styleRefs);

  return <button {...props} className={styles.button} />;
};
```
